Earlier, we said that filters can be used for cleaning up our data and
also for creating dedicated subsets of our data in separate views.
Let's take a look now at how we would achieve this.
There are many types of filters that we could apply to create dedicated views.
Again, these views are going to be hard-filtered,
unlike segments which are dynamic.
We could filter by geography, technology, acquisition, sub-directory,
or hostname, which is especially relevant for a roll-up
or cross domain scenario as far as discussed in the last course.
The process for sub-setting your data into a dedicated view is straightforward.
First, you can create a new view or copy your main view.
In either case, the view will be empty in terms of data.
Then you apply and include or potentially an exclude filter.
There are 25 use per property.
So, let's say that we are creating a dedicated view for our visitors from Australia.
We could click Create View,
View Name, Australia, that's good.
In this case, for reporting time zone,
we could keep that to wherever the organization is located:
Create View, Filters, Add Filter.
In this case, it's probably okay to add the filter directly to the view without
going through a TextView because you're not altering your main view.
So, if there happens to be a problem with the filter,
it will only affect this dedicated Australia view and not your main view.
Filter Name, Australia Only,
Custom, Include, Filter Pattern, Australia, that's it.
Save the filter and we should be good.
As a note, exclude filters are cumulative,
meaning that if we wanted a view that included all visitors
except visitors from Australia and except visitors from New Zealand,
we could apply an exclude Australia filter and then an exclude New Zealand filter.
However, if we wanted to include visitors from
Australia and New Zealand in a single-view,
we could not use to succeeding include filters because they're not cumulative.
If we added an include Australia filter all other countries would go away.
So adding include New Zealand would serve no purpose.
What we'll we need?
You guessed it, a simple regular expression.
If we go back to our Australia filter and modify it for Australia and New Zealand.
Now, the filter pattern can be Australia or pipe symbol,
New Zealand and we're good.
As another note about dedicated views.
In some cases they work hand in hand with access rights.
Let's say that you wanted to limit access to Google Analytics just for
a specific sub-directory for a department in your company
or to a single traffic source for an affiliate.
We could create dedicated views and then limit access rights only to those views.
Again, demerits we'll be talking about access rights in the next lesson.
For now, just to see how we would subset our data by sub-directory.
Let's say that we wanted to create a view for
only pages within the products sub-directory.
We could click Create New View, Product Pages Only,
go back into Filters,
Add Filter, Product Pages Only,
same name as the view.
That's okay. In this case,
we could actually use
a predefined filter traffic to the sub-directories that begin with products.
So we could define our view,
and if we wanted to restrict the access only to this view,
that's where access rights come in.